                                        
            The Equipment               
                                        
   The only equipment REQUIRED are      
one disk drive, and a auto answer modem 
(that the BBS program has been modified 
to support). Optional are: Printer      
(device 4), and extra drives (devices   
8 - 11).                                
                                        
               Disks??                  
                                        
   Your complete BBS system will have   
one SYSTEM disk (containing the BBS,    
boot file, editors, configurer, and all 
ML files. This disk should not be in    
any drives while the BBS is on-line and 
should be set aside when the BBS is     
on-line.                                
                                        
   When you set up your BBS, you can    
have up to 3 drives with anything you   
like to be stored on them. The          
exception is your MAIN data disk.       
This disk will be in device 8 and will  
hold all main files. Other file types   
(UD section, Msg base, Mail, Text       
files) can also be set to device 8 but  
are optional.                           
                                        
   The disks you have set in any other  
drives act as data disks and can have   
other functions of the BBS rerouted to  
them (individual sigs, mail, etc.).     
                                        
          GETTING STARTED!              
                                        
   Included on your system disk is a    
program to set up some example files    
for your MAIN and data disks. These     
files can be edited as needed.          
                                        
LOAD "CONFIG 2.0" ,8                    
                                        
SEARCHING FOR CONFIG 2.0                
LOADING                                 
READY.                                  
RUN                                     
                                        
  You will now see an opening screen    
and a prompt to press RETURN. Because   
this does not configure to your personal
desires and only sets some example      
values, it will only set up for 1 or 2  
drives. Turn on drive 8. If you have a  
second drive, turn on drive 9. Make     
sure drive 9 has a FORMATTED disk       
inside. Drive 8 can either have a       
formatted or unformatted disk inside.   
                                        
  When this is done, press return and   
answer the questions very carefully.    
Your handle is up to 17 characters,     
name: 17 chars, fone: 8 chars, pass: 8  
chars. The password will be any         
combination of upper or lowercase       
letters that should be known to YOU     
only and not given out.                 
                                        
  Now the program should begin creating 
the main files, menus, msg base, and    
vote section respectively. Lastly, it   
will ask you to swap between your       
system disk and MAIN data disk in       
drive 8 while it copys 2 of your main   
system files.                           
                                        
          Off-line editor!              
                                        
LOAD "EDITOR 2.0" ,8                    
                                        
SEARCHING FOR EDITOR 2.0                
LOADING                                 
READY.                                  
RUN                                     
                                        
NOTE: Any reference to the "DATA DISK"  
refers to all data disks being put in   
their proper drives!                    
                                        
  From this program you can change any  
of the example values. Lets look        
around... hit 1 from the main menu.     
1) Edit main level options              
                                        
    This option alows you to change the 
command letter (letter pressed) for the 
functions available from the main menu  
as well as the access level required    
(or higher) to use the option. To edit  
any option, press the number next to it 
and answer the questions. REMEMBER: Any 
time you change options, MAKE SURE you  
change the coresponding menus. In this  
case, "(pound)mainmenu x" (x = access   
level 0 - 9) will hold the main level   
options. Type "q" when done editing.    
                                        
2) Edit msg mkr options                 
                                        
    This alows you to edit the command  
letters for the BBS message writer      
options. These functions are typed as   
*(letter) (RETURN)                      
The functions not listed that are set   
in permanently are:                     
*w (word wrap toggle)                   
*u (uppercase/lowercase toggle)         
*h (help file)                          
                                        
   A list of these commands should be   
included in the file "(pound)msg mkr    
help"                                   
                                        
3) Edit msg base options                
                                        
    This section is devoted to the      
command letters for your msg base and   
the access level required to use them.  
Msg delete and resp delete should be    
reserved for those with a higher        
access.                                 
                                        
4) NAME OF BBS                          
5) Mail Device                          
                                        
   Here is the device number (8-11) for 
all personal user-to-user mail. This is 
also the device for your TEXT or        
LIBRARY files.                          
                                        
6) Sig System                           
                                        
   This is a very important part of     
your BBS system and should be edited    
ONLY ONCE. The only changes that may    
not affect the current status of your   
msg base would be the adding of sigs.   
Maximum Messages refers to the number   
of individual subjects that will be     
accepted in a sig at one time. Each msg 
has its own file on the disk and all    
responses are tagged to the end of the  
subjects and should not be considered   
in this option.                         
                                        
7) UD Editor                            
8) Time/Calls editor                    
                                        
   This is where you edit the number of 
calls per day, hours on-line allowed    
per call, and tens of minutes allowed   
on-line per call. All new users (first  
time callers) are given level 0.        
                                        
Q) Quit- USE THIS OPTION ONLY IF YOU    
DON'T WANT YOUR CHANGES STORED!!!       
                                        
S) Save and Quit- Save the file         
"(pound)variables" with all of the      
information in this section. This file  
along with all menus are MAIN data disk 
files.                                  
                                        
OPTION 2 from the main menu             
                                        
   This is the editor for the userlog   
on your Main data disk.                 
                                        
1) Create new user log                  
                                        
    This completely erases and          
re-writes the userlog as done in the    
configurer.                             
                                        
2) Edit userlog                         
                                        
    This is the option to edit an       
individual user. This off-line editor   
allows you to edit EVERY aspect of a    
users information. The varaibles        
mentions (of which only 0 and 1 are     
used now) are numbers up to 4 chars.    
The Message base uses variables 0 and 1 
to hold the last msg read. (each msg    
posted in your message base is assigned 
a consecutively higher number which     
is compared with these variables).      
                                        
3) Display users                        
                                        
4) Add a User                           
                                        
   This is used to add a user wherever  
there is an opening. Openings are       
assigned as follows.                    
                                        
      1) Any record that has not been   
written to already.                     
      2) Any record which has a handle  
of "EMPTY".                             
                                        
5) Exit                                 
                                        
MAIN OPTION 3                           
                                        
   EACH SIG YOU HAVE CREATED IN THE MSG 
BASE EDITOR MUST HAVE A SIG FILE RECORD 
CREATED FOR IT. ANY SIG FILE CREATED    
WILL ERASE PREVIOUS RECORDS FOR THAT    
SIG!                                    
                                        
             Whats What.                
                                        
    Put your MAIN data disk in drive 8  
and load the directory. Here are the    
names of files you should see with a    
description of what they are. Depending 
on how you've configured your system,   
some files will or will not be present. 
All files on your Main data disk should 
be preceded with the english pound sign 
as a reminder that they are BBS data    
disk files and they should not be       
allowed to be downloaded.               
                                        
    userlog - all user information.     
This file will grow as your number of   
users grows                             
    calls - this holds the number of    
calls made by each user for that day.   
This file should be reset (by the BBS   
monster mode) every 24 hours. The BBS   
(when on-line) will go into monster     
mode automatically any free time        
between 11:00 pm and 12:59 am.          
    opening msg - this file will be     
displayed as soon as a caller has made  
connection and has identified himself   
as a STANDARD ASCII or COMMODORE ASCII  
user.                                   
    closing msg - this file is          
displayed whenever a user logs off or   
the BBS throws him off (because he has  
dropped carrier ,ran out of time, or    
the SysOp thrown him off.)              
    variables - mentioned above         
    last caller - A VERY IMPORTANT      
FILE. This file holds information as    
precious to the well being or your msg  
base as the varaibles file is to the    
BBS itself. If this file is erased and  
not rewritten by the logoff sequence    
before information is lost, your msg    
base is done for and should be re-done. 
This file is correctly erased and       
re-written in the logoff sequence. If   
this file is erased, reset your Sig     
files and set variables 0 and 1 for all 
users back to 0.                        
    info - this file contains some      
basic information about your BBS and is 
available from the main command level.  
    newuser - this file is shown to     
those logging on to your BBS for the    
first time, after they have given the   
BBS their personal user information.    
    mainmenu (0-9) these are the main   
menus for each access level, they are   
read fron the main command level.       
    msg mkr help - mentioned above      
    sysopmenu - this is the menu read   
from the private sysop editing section  
of the BBS                              
    msgmenu - this is the menu for your 
msg base, you should not include the    
sysop functions on this menu.           
    emailmenu - this is the menu for    
the Electronic user-to-user mail        
section.                                
    udmenu - this is read from the      
Upload/Download section                 
    Sig (0-X) This hold the number of   
msgs, message pointer, and for each     
msg: number of replys and the msg       
number.                                 
    sigmsg (0-X) this is shown apon     
entering a sig.                         
    vote - this file holds the basic    
information for the voting section.     
    question - this holds a more        
detailed explanation of the voting      
section question.                       
    vote box - this holds the accual    
votes, along with the id# of the person 
that voted for it.                      
    v2.0 ml1 - main system ml file      
    p.protocol - punter ml              
                                        
                                        
  Files that will pop up later:         
    feedback - mail left for the        
SysOp's reading.                        
    txt (0-X) text file. NOTE: Text     
file 0 is accually the text file menu   
    msg (0-X) (0-X) - posted messages   
    Log! - a seq file holding the calls 
of the day as well as a general look at 
what they did. This file can fill up    
your data disk and should be erased     
periodically.                           
                                        
    Now your ready to look at the BBS   
     program itself!                    
